# CrossLang-SHA256

This project provides implementations of the SHA-256 algorithm in both C++17 and Python3.

## Overview

Compute & Compare SHA-256 hashes of files located in the `files` directory. The results are presented in a tabular format to easily compare hashes generated by C++ and Python implementations.

**Two instant rules:**
- Immediately Runnable.
- Import-friendly as single file.

## Justifications 

You need to use checksums with byte-ops on files/batches to check in multiple languages, including testing file integrity, and have no time for importing c++ openssl library into your project for a simple hex-digest. Generate in C++ or Python by importing & editing your fork or other codebases as you edit/compile/run.

Or simply add/play/double-check with other languages, Patchers, Hacker, Modders, all welcome!

## Directory Structure

```
sha256/
├── cpp/
│   ├── main.cpp
│   ├── sha256.cpp
│   ├── sha256.h
├── python/
│   ├── main.py
│   ├── sha256.py
├── files/
│   ├── ADDYOURFILESHERE.txt (Your files to be hashed go here)
├── ha.sh
├── README.md
|...
├── output.txt (generated when you run ha.sh)
```

## Running the Project

To run the project, use the provided `ha.sh` script. This script compiles the C++ code, processes each file in the `files` directory using both C++ and Python implementations, and generates a tabular comparison of the hashes.

You may need to set the execute permission using the command `chmod +x ha.sh` first...

Run
```sh
sh ha.sh
```



## Example Output

The output will be displayed in the terminal and also saved to `output.txt` in the following format:

| Filename      | C++ Hash  | Python Hash |
| ------------- | --------- | ----------- |
| ADDYOURFILESHERE.txt     | 2ddd0a0a  | 2ddd0a0a    |
| YOUR_FILE.EXE  | f8b6c2d6  | f8b6c2d6    |

## Dependencies

### C++
- A C++17 compatible compiler (e.g., g++)
- The C++ implementation adheres to the NIST FIPS 180-4 standard for the Secure Hash Algorithm (SHA) family. You can find the standard [here](http://dx.doi.org/10.6028/NIST.FIPS.180-4).

No external libraries are required.

### Python
- Python 3.x

## Implementation Details

### C++
The C++ implementation of the SHA-256 algorithm is found in `cpp/sha256.cpp` and `cpp/sha256.h`. The `main.cpp` file processes a single file provided as an argument and outputs the first 8 characters of the SHA-256 hash.

### Python
The Python implementation of the SHA-256 algorithm is found in `python/sha256.py`. The `main.py` file processes a single file provided as an argument and outputs the first 8 characters of the SHA-256 hash.


## TODO
- Add map/dict for file recognizer (if equal to 8-char trunc-hash, get name key)
- import map/dict as file arg e.g. --refmap "filename"
- Digest size of 512 bits i.e. SHA3-512 [reference?](https://github.com/Anmol-Singh-Jaggi/SHA3_512)
- Replace python version from standard import to NIST FIPS 180-4 standard, i.e. No external libraries, see [reference](https://github.com/keanemind/python-sha-256)
